# Nanobody Polyreactivity Prediction

## Background
This project explores machine learning approaches to predicting polyreactivity in nanobodies. Recent developments in computational binder design programs such as [BindCraft](https://github.com/martinpacesa/BindCraft) and [BoltzGen](https://github.com/HannesStark/boltzgen), among others, have enabled the rapid generation of diverse candidate sequences with an unprecedented degree of control over the target binding site and binder geometry. When combined with physics- and AlphaFold-based filters, these design programs can reach double digit hit rates for some targets. However, the rate is highly dependent on the choice of target, binding site, and filtering strategy, with some suggesting [screens of hundreds or thousands of designs](https://github.com/RosettaCommons/RFantibody#antibody-design-scale) as a more realistic strategy to identify hits in general.

Anecdotally, it appears that in some cases these design programs produce molecules with high levels of off-target binding. This likely occurs by diverse mechanisms, but the term polyreactivity is commonly used to encompass a kind of all-around molecular stickiness. Binding without specificity is, of course, effectively no binding at all for real-world uses, so identifying and triaging these cases would substantially improve the yield of productive binders. At its most basic, polyreactivity prediction can act as an additional filter, removing such candidates from the pool before they proceed to experimental testing, but more advanced applications can apply classifier guidance to minimize polyreactivity in the designs during generation.

## Methods
The goal is to explore a variety of machine learning models, beginning with simple baselines such as logistic regression and proceeding to more advanced models such as transformer-based architectures and ultimately structurally-informed graph neural networks. The training data is derived from [Harvey *et al.*](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-35276-4), which used beads coated with a polyreactivity reagent to segregate a nanobody library into high and low polyreactivity pools which were sequenced with NGS. I use their processed and aligned nanobody sequences to generate my own training, test, and validation splits after first clustering the sequences by identity to prevent leakage of near-identical sequences between sets. The "pipeline" is brief, but they can be reproduced with the provided environment and Makefile.
